README.md, before:

# Whatsapp Link :iphone:

Simple node for connecting Node-Red to Whatsapp :iphone:

Currently in developing mode, Continous updated may encounter. :sweat_smile: 

Working on WhatsappLite (Lite version of whatsapp Web baised on web sockets.)
 

## To Connect with Whatsapp 
![](./.github/admin_login.gif)

1. Deploy whatsapp admin node (along with whatsappLink node).
2. whatsappLink node will initilize, connect with whatsapp and generate a <b>QR code below the Admin Node </b> (in terminal also).
3. Scan the QR code with your Whatsapp Mobile App (Go to settings > Linked device > Scan & Connect).
4. Done - Whatsapp Connected.
5. Send "`!nodered`" to get a reply from Node-Red  in Chats/Groups. 

 *It will create a Whatsapp Web instance in your machine and store your session locally in Node-RED. All data are store in users  `<user>/.node-red/Whatsapp-Link` folder. Near you Node-Red's settings.js file.*
 

## Nodes
1. **Whatsapp Admin** : Node used for  first time users to connect with whatsapp and other admin related tasks. </br>
Admin Node generate QR Code just below the node for easy connection with whatsapp. 

    

    | Inputs | Description           |
    |--------|--------------         |
    | test   | Checks the current status of whatsapp and output the same in `msg.payload`|
    | destroy| Close the client and destroy the whatsapp connection.|
    | restart | Restart the whatsapp connection. |
    | logout | Simply log you out and close the session. |
    ---
    
    
    | Output | Description |
    |--------| ------------|
    |`status` | provide status on `msg.payload` for all and each input mentioned in above table. |
    | Connecting..| When whatsapp attempting to connect.
    | QR Code (image) | when QR code is generated. *This method can also be used to get QR Code (image) generated by whatsapp.*
    | Connected | When whatapp is sucessfully connected.|
    | Group Joined or Removed | `msg.paylod` : Group Name. </br> `msg.type` : joined / Removed from group.</br> `msg.notification` : Complete notification. </br> `msg.chat` : Complete Group Details. 
    

2. **Chats In** : Node to recive all messages send to connected number.
    -  Simply deploy the node and wait for green (connected) status.
    -  After succesfully connection, Node is able to recive all messages.

    | Output | Description |
    |--------|-------------|
    | `msg.paylod` | Recived message |
    | `msg.from`   | Sender Number |
    | `msg.chatID` | Chat ID of Group chat / Personal chat |
    | `msg.message` | Complete message object. <br />*Some extra details for advance users* |


3. **Chats Out** : As simple as mention on name, node will send `msg.payload` recived at input to the number mentioned in node.

    MultiMedia Message Out: Requirments-
    | Input | Description |
    |--------|-------------|
    | `msg.image` | Base64 (encoded image) |
    | `msg.payload`   | Image Caption |
    | `msg.toNumber` | Sender number (if number not provided in node) |

    Don't forget to mention international dialing code befor your number.
    Number must be in format like <b>+11 99999 99999</b> without any space.
        <P><b>OR</b></P>
    Leave the Number blank and provide the number along with paylod at `msg.toNumber` with international code.
    To send message on multiple contacts an Arrar of number can be passed on `msg.toNumber` like `msg.toNumber` = ["+1199999999", "+12990000099", "+1311111111"].


4. **Group Message** : Whatsapp Group Node to send message in a Group.

    The node will send recived `msg.payload` to a group chat.

5. **Reply Node** : In Beta mode.

Node will reply(the `payload`) on each message starting with string mentioned in instruction coloum or defaults `!red`.
    

## Issues & Updates

Issues and Suggestions are welcome [here.](https://github.com/raweee/node-red-contrib-whatsapp-link/issues)

* `Ver-0.1.21` : Group Message Node added.
* `Ver-0.1.23` : Nodes are formatted correctly and names are updated.
* `Ver-0.1.28` : Now QR Codes are directlly avilable in run time on Whatsapp-Admin-Node.
* `Ver-0.1.30` : Message can be send to an  Array of contacts provided at `msg.toNumber`.
* Working on WhatsappLite.  

## Future Nodes
Currently working on more Whatsapp Node and will be avilable soon -
1. Chat Reply node. (working)
2. Whatsapp button message.
3. Whatsapp List message.
2. Instruction (smart) Reply Node.

Complete detail for Nodes will also be updated as soon as possible. 

>Please don`t try to spam with your personal Number, Suspicious activities might be tracked by whatsapp. 

Thanks to bear with me

Commit message:

Whatsapp-Lite (Beta Mode) Added in Config Node

README.md, after:

# Whatsapp Link :iphone:

Simple node for connecting Node-Red to Whatsapp :iphone:

Currently in developing mode, Continous updated may encounter. :sweat_smile: 


## To Connect with Whatsapp 
![](./.github/admin_login.gif)

1. Deploy whatsapp admin node (along with whatsappLink node).
2. whatsappLink node will initilize, connect with whatsapp and generate a <b>QR code below the Admin Node </b> (in terminal also).
3. Scan the QR code with your Whatsapp Mobile App (Go to settings > Linked device > Scan & Connect).
4. Done - Whatsapp Connected.
5. Send "`!nodered`" to get a reply from Node-Red  in Chats/Groups. 

### if Whatsapp Web not working ?
Their is lite version also avilable in it. Totally different from Whatapp-Web,
Whatsapp-Lite (Beta Mode) works on Web-Sockets only, It might work for you also.

Simply chosse `Whatsapp Lite` in Whatsapp-Link configration node. 

![](./.github/WhatsaaLite.png)


 *It will create a Whatsapp Web instance in your machine and store your session locally in Node-RED. All data are store in users  `<user>/.node-red/Whatsapp-Link` folder. Near you Node-Red's settings.js file.*
 

## Nodes
1. **Whatsapp Admin** : Node used for  first time users to connect with whatsapp and other admin related tasks. </br>
Admin Node generate QR Code just below the node for easy connection with whatsapp. 

    

    | Inputs | Description           |
    |--------|--------------         |
    | test   | Checks the current status of whatsapp and output the same in `msg.payload`|
    | destroy| Close the client and destroy the whatsapp connection.|
    | restart | Restart the whatsapp connection. |
    | logout | Simply log you out and close the session. |
    ---
    
    
    | Output | Description |
    |--------| ------------|
    |`status` | provide status on `msg.payload` for all and each input mentioned in above table. |
    | Connecting..| When whatsapp attempting to connect.
    | QR Code (image) | when QR code is generated. *This method can also be used to get QR Code (image) generated by whatsapp.*
    | Connected | When whatapp is sucessfully connected.|
    | Group Joined or Removed | `msg.paylod` : Group Name. </br> `msg.type` : joined / Removed from group.</br> `msg.notification` : Complete notification. </br> `msg.chat` : Complete Group Details. 
    

2. **Chats In** : Node to recive all messages send to connected number.
    -  Simply deploy the node and wait for green (connected) status.
    -  After succesfully connection, Node is able to recive all messages.

    | Output | Description |
    |--------|-------------|
    | `msg.paylod` | Recived message |
    | `msg.from`   | Sender Number |
    | `msg.chatID` | Chat ID of Group chat / Personal chat |
    | `msg.message` | Complete message object. <br />*Some extra details for advance users* |


3. **Chats Out** : As simple as mention on name, node will send `msg.payload` recived at input to the number mentioned in node.

    MultiMedia Message Out: Requirments-
    | Input | Description |
    |--------|-------------|
    | `msg.image` | Base64 (encoded image) |
    | `msg.payload`   | Image Caption |
    | `msg.toNumber` | Reciver number (if number not provided in node) |

    Don't forget to mention international dialing code befor your number.
    Number must be in format like <b>+11 99999 99999</b> without any space.
        <P><b>OR</b></P>
    Leave the Number blank and provide the number along with paylod at `msg.toNumber` with international code.
    To send message on multiple contacts an Arrar of number can be passed on `msg.toNumber` like `msg.toNumber` = ["+1199999999", "+12990000099", "+1311111111"].


4. **Group Message** : Whatsapp Group Node to send message in a Group.

    The node will send recived `msg.payload` to a group chat.

5. **Reply Node** : In Beta mode.

Node will reply(the `payload`) on each message starting with string mentioned in instruction coloum or defaults `!red`.
    

## Issues & Updates

Issues and Suggestions are welcome [here.](https://github.com/raweee/node-red-contrib-whatsapp-link/issues)

* `Ver-0.1.21` : Group Message Node added.
* `Ver-0.1.23` : Nodes are formatted correctly and names are updated.
* `Ver-0.1.28` : Now QR Codes are directlly avilable in run time on Whatsapp-Admin-Node.
* `Ver-0.1.30` : Message can be send to an  Array of contacts provided at `msg.toNumber`.
* `Ver-0.1.32` : Socket based `Whatsapp Lite` config node added in beta mode. Image message sending support added in chats-out node. 

## Future Nodes
Currently working on more Whatsapp Node and will be avilable soon -
1. Chat Reply node. (working)
2. Whatsapp button message.
3. Whatsapp List message.
2. Instruction (smart) Reply Node.

Complete detail for Nodes will also be updated as soon as possible. 

>Please don`t try to spam with your personal Number, Suspicious activities might be tracked by whatsapp. 

Thanks to bear with me
